Why is the correlation between the portfolio and the FF HML factor not 1?
A: Our B/M long-short portfolios are simple single sorts based on Fama-French’s (1992) 
univariate regression rather than the size-balanced 2 x 3 two-step constructions from 
Fama-French (1993). That is, FF 1993 form HML by (1) forming 6 portfolios by sorting on size 
and book-to-market and then (2) going long-short the extreme book-to-market portfolios with equal-weighting. 
Our code allows for this more complicated construction but we haven’t built it yet. Contributors are welcome! 
We have implemented this alternative construction and you can find those 2 x 3 portfolios here.
~from FAQ of openassetpricing


When the value style is in favor, assets flow in, returns are good, and value becomes 
expensive based on relative valuation. When the market tide turns, the opposite happens: 
funds flow out of value stocks, these flows generate negative price pressure, and value becomes 
relatively cheap as returns fall. If this holds, then, as we noted earlier, the falling relative 
valuation of value stocks versus growth stocks should be a temporary headwind.
~Is Value Investing Structurally Impaired? - Michael Aked


import nasdaqdatalink
data = nasdaqdatalink.get('NSE/OIL')

NASDAQ Data Link API Key: cXeAmNDsxwDc9KznhMoy

FRED API Key: bba75ab32d4dc4aedb40f87beac720d3


July 2nd: 
- Following Adrei Goncalves in computing fundamental equity/ fundamentals-to-market ratio to compensate for 
  potentially outdated bookvalue-metric
- further analyse the return decomposition
    - investigate how each factor behaves in other models implemented: done
    - Analyze changes in return factors over time and find reasons for those changes
- compare the portfolio if financials are eliminated: done



Ideas on why the value premium declines:
- return decompositions shows convergence of return drivers to zero post 2010
    - possibility, that market efficiency diminished arbitrage
- bookvalue may not be state-of-the-art anymore -> test with fundamental equity!!
    - run return decomposition while exchanging bookvalue with fundamental equity, since this is the selection criterion.


Sales:
calculation based on:
gen temp = (rect + invt + aco + ppent + intan - ap - lco - lo) 
gen AssetTurnover = sale/((temp + l12.temp)/2)

to derive sales from asset turnover I use AssetTurnover*TotalAssets. I dont have the matching data that would get the pure Sales value!
Therefore the values will not be accurate.

i will probably need to find a different calculation of the fundamental equity. several possibilities (check on research)
looks promising so far though, so no need to discard fundamental equity as new sort.

Regression: Do regression as described in Chen et al. It doesnt use VAR. I might want to stick with the results of the VAR, 
but i need the transfer to long range dependencies.


Return Decomposition:
Currently computed with single-sort, maybe run with FF 2x3 sort